HARI SREENIVASAN: We are now
on the eve of seeing a Senate
proposal for health care,
including replacing the
Affordable Care Act.
Republican leaders plan
to release their bill
tomorrow, after working
on it behind closed
doors for weeks.
Late today, The Washington Post
reported a draft bill largely
mirrors the House's version,
but with some notable changes.
It will end Medicaid expansion
more gradually, but cut it
deeply in the long term.
It also removes language
that restricts federally
subsidized health plans
from covering abortions.
Lisa Desjardins joins me now.
Lisa, considering the process
here, tomorrow's going to be
an unveiling of this draft, not
just to the public, but even
to a lot of Republicans.
LISA DESJARDINS: That's right.
Most Republican senators have
not seen the language yet, Hari.
They tell me that they will see
it tomorrow around 9:30 a.m.
Eastern time.
That's when Republican
senators will gather
for this exact reason.
When will we see it?
When will the public see it?
Republicans tell me that is
at the same time, 9:30 a.m.
Eastern, online.
Not clear exactly where yet.
Hari, even as we wait for
the exact bill, today, we're
hearing from some key senators
that they have alarm bells
ringing in their heads.
Remember, Republicans can only
lose two Republican senators
and still have this bill pass.
Well, today, Rand Paul
told me he sees what he
hears as Obamacare-lite.
And another senator, Ron
Johnson of Wisconsin,
told me he's concerned.
He asked for more time
to review this bill.
He said a vote next week,
as is planned, is too soon.
He said he's not getting more
time and he's not sure he
can get to yes without it.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Speaking of
health care, today was also
an important day, a deadline
for insurance companies to
figure out whether they were
going to participate in some of
the exchanges or not.
LISA DESJARDINS: This is
critical for what kind
of options people will
have on the individual
markets.
And so far, today, Hari, we
have learned some news from some
insurers pulling out of markets,
in fact, Anthem and
Blue Cross/Blue Shield
pulling out of markets
in Wisconsin and Indiana.
But it's really a mixed story,
Hari, because we're also seeing
new insurers enter in places
like Tennessee, which will
have three more options for
insurance than it did last year.
And also I spoke to a
company called Medica.
They plan on offering
insurance throughout Iowa.
That will be new for
them this year, adding
another option for Iowans.
But here's comes the
catch, Hari, in a way.
Medica says, to do that,
they're planning to increase
premiums by 43 percent.
So we will get more news
here, but it's a really mixed
picture, all of these insurers
saying there's
instability in the market.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Lisa Desjardins joining us
from Capitol Hill, many thanks.